Ramon Sessions could be on chopping block as Knicks guard falls out of rotation
There was a moment in Wednesday’s loss to the Magic when Ramon Sessions thought he would finally play again.

“But coach changed his mind,” the point guard said.

Nobody has fallen further in Jeff Hornacek’s rotation than Sessions, who went from starter to four consecutive DNPs and counting.

After the Knicks started 0-3 with Sessions logging the majority of minutes at point guard, the 31-year-old was supplanted in the lineup by Jarrett Jack and nixed from the rotation entirely.

Hornacek has credited Jack with doing a better job of setting up the offense, but Sessions pushed back at the idea that he struggled in that department.

Sessions indicated he wasn’t given enough time.

“I wouldn’t say it’s something where I’m falling short. I would just think the more practices we got, the more games we play we’ll eventually get to that point,” he said. “So It wasn’t that I was lacking in that department.”

Sessions signed on a one-year deal guaranteed at $2.33 million with the idea that he’d serve as a stopgap starter and mentor to Frank Ntilikina. Now at the end of the bench, he might be considered surplus with the Knicks having to create a roster spot by Monday to make room for Joakim Noah’s return.

The Knicks’ preference is to trade a player and retrieve a draft pick, but a lack of interest would force them to waive a guaranteed contract. Sessions, Mindaugas Kuzminskas or Michael Beasley would make the most sense.

Sessions said he’s been given no hints from the front office about his future, and GM Scott Perry declined to indulge the topic.

“I think it would be unfair for me to comment about any guy as it relates to if he’s going to be here or not,” he said. “What I will say about Ramon, Ramon is a true professional. The guy is a pro. He goes about his business the same way every day whether he’s playing or not playing. That sets a fine example.”

The Knicks are 6-2 since moving Jack to the starting lineup, but he’s coming off a miserable performance Wednesday when he committed six turnovers in a loss to the Magic.

Jack is the only player on the roster on a non-guaranteed deal.

“(Jack’s) done a fine job and it’s been very clear that he’s done that,” Perry said before Wednesday’s game. “He’s brought leadership and stability to the starting group and this team.”

Sessions has changed teams 10 times in 11 seasons, but said this is the first time he was completely out of a rotation. He’s hopeful that will change.

“I’ve been around awhile. Been through a lot of different scenarios,” he said. “The season’s still early. It’s a long season. In the NBA a lot of things can happen in a lot of different ways.”