Schedule alert! Every game tired teams should lose this month
Doc Rivers eyed the schedule, carefully hunting land mines, an annual August tradition for all NBA head coaches. In years past, Rivers, the Clippers' skipper, could always find a handful of games that he knew his squad would likely surrender not because of the opposition but because of the circumstances entering that game itself.

Such circumstances might include a game falling during a lengthy road trip, or at the tail end of a brutal back-to-back set, or it required travel across time zones, or it came against a team that had been off for a few days -- or maybe it was all of the above, a cocktail of misfortune.

In a league that adopted an 82-games-in-169-days approach, there was little that worn-down teams could do in these situations, especially against well-rested opposition -- and especially during the second half of the season.

"It's a significant advantage," Rivers tells ESPN. "And going into those, you know that. There's nothing you can do about it. They're going to be fresher. They're going to play faster. They're going to play harder. Our job, even in those games, is to try and find a way to win the game and get through the game. That's what you try to do."

But this year, while searching for "schedule losses," as these games are known around the league, Rivers instead found some relief.

Following growing criticism from LeBron James, Kobe Bryant and Dirk Nowitzki, along with several health experts, the NBA altered its 2017-18 regular-season slate, eliminating four-in-five stretches for the first time in league history, reducing five-in-seven sets and trimming 57 total back-to-backs, among other adjustments.

To create more rest days, this NBA regular season began Oct. 17, one week earlier than last season and the earliest start since 1980. "There are some rough patches," Rivers says, "but it's a good schedule."

Spurs coach Gregg Popovich, who pioneered resting players more than a decade ago, even praised NBA commissioner Adam Silver on Monday before his Spurs faced the Celtics in Boston, saying the schedule "speaks a lot for how much [Silver] cares about the players and the league."

Said Popovich, "The league, obviously, they've compromised a great deal. This schedule is great."

Is it really?

"It's an important step in the right direction," says Dr. Charles Czeisler, the director of sleep medicine at Brigham Health and Harvard Medical School, who has consulted with NBA teams on managing their schedules.

"First of all, it's an acknowledgment that this is an issue. Secondly, it's a league taking steps, trying to reduce the adverse impact of sleep deficiency and circadian [rhythm] disruption."

However, Czeisler added, "there's still a long way to go."

When asked the same question about the NBA's schedule, Timothy Royer, Psy.D, a clinical neuropsychologist and president and owner of Michigan-based Neuropeak Pro, which specializes in athletic performance and recovery, was more blunt.

"The short answer: no," says Royer, who has worked with NBA players for a decade and with teams for the past six years, including consulting on their schedules to optimize recovery and brain performance.

Speaking of the NBA's schedule and not of any specific teams, Royer says, "Yes, it's great that they're looking at something, but it's like polishing a car that has dents in the hood."