Winning Is Logistics
Drew Magary’s Thursday Afternoon NFL Dick Joke Jamboroo runs every Thursday during the NFL season. Email Drew here. Buy his book here.

Outstream Video
 
The Los Angeles Rams are a legit 6-2 and on top of the NFC West, and they have essentially the same roster they had a year ago. Turns out getting rid of Jeff Fisher and hiring an actual coach makes a WILD difference. We always knew Fisher was a lousy coach, but it took the emergence of Sean McVay to truly understand the depth of Fisher’s badness. And this goes beyond mere play-calling and clock management. Please read this anodyne Jared Goff postgame quote, delivered after the Rams threw the Giants off a balcony last Sunday:

It’s at testament to the coaches and the training staff and everyone that puts that plan together… you know, how we’re gonna travel, how we’re gonna eat and all that stuff that goes into it. It’s been awesome.
There. Right there. “How we’re gonna travel” and “How we’re gonna eat.” Those are big things, man. Success in the NFL is not merely predicated on which coaching staff wins the tape-watching contest. It’s a triumph of event planning as well. If you’ve planned something as simple as a child’s birthday party, you know that logistics are fucking awful. Now imagine having to work out logistics for a team of 53 players, two dozen coaches, and God knows how many support staff.

A good head coach is actively involved in that phase of game preparation as well, because that’s the invisible shit that can make a difference between Jared Goff being a terrified rookie who isn’t quite certain that his bosses know what the hell they’re doing, and Goff being a more calm, confident passer in just his second season. Every coach wants to do the fun part of the job where you run drills and yell at everyone. But the winning is in the tedium… the innocuous bullshit that no one really wants to do. And from Goff’s comments, it isn’t hard to assume that Jeff Fisher excused himself from that phase of game planning.

Everyone has a big hard-on for Bill Belichick and his whole DO YOUR JOB mantra, but the reason that mantra works for the Patriots is because Belichick, ever the micromanager, has put best practices in place that ALLOW players to do their job. The Pats just got themselves a big new fancy plane, and that’s not just because Bob Kraft wants to impress his escort for the evening, although that obviously factors in. That plane is also an indirect investment in on-field performance. You and I have both worked jobs where doing you find yourself hampered because you’re tied up in piles of bullshit: needless meetings, botched travel plans, tech problems, etc. Having the freedom to bear down and WORK is no small thing.

Football isn’t that different in terms of work environment. The more efficiently logistics are coordinated, the less secondary impact they have on players who very much need to focus solely on going out onto the field and executing with both aggression and precision. You can’t do that if your stupid team puts out day-old ham sandwiches for the lunch spread, or runs you ragged by having you practice hard just before a plane ride.

As much as I love to goof on Tom Coughlin and his regimented horseshit, there’s a reason that Jacksonville—a team that doesn’t even have a functional quarterback—suddenly finds itself in the midst of AFC contention while his old team is falling apart and cursing each other out. It’s because when you take the time and care to address every logistical element to staging a football game, when there is no miscommunication or confusion up high, when it all feels seamless for players to travel and eat and then take the field, when they are free to care about the game and nothing else, they perform. A year ago Jared Goff was a bust. It’s a wonder what adding a decent pregame spread and subtracting Jeff Fisher can do.